The next thing to talk about is that both platforms iOS and Android prefer native apps.
So as most of you know there are native apps.
So for example Android apps made with Java and using the Android SDK or iOS apps made an Xcode using
Swift or Objective-C.
Finally there are other hybrid or cross-platform apps made with frameworks like Appcelerator or Xamarin
or PhoneGap etc. So basically using non-native tools but the advantage is that you can create an app
that can be deployed both onto the Android and iOS App Store.
Now students ask us this question a lot.
Why should I learn to create native apps?
Why don't I just make one app that can be deployed on both App Store saving me time and money?
Well those are some of the pros of developing hybrid apps. But on the other hand the cons are that you
will usually get inferior user experience.
If you've been on the app design course, you will hear a stress about how important it is to understand
what optimal user experience is like on your platform.
So for example on Android it's common to use these menu draws or hamburger menus whereas on iOS the
default should be a tab bar.
So there's a lot of subtleties in the user experience that makes an app feel native and it does matter.
Now in this case, another reason why not to develop a hybrid app or cross-platform app is that both app
stores
the Google Play and the iOS App Store, prefer featuring native apps.
So looking back at the data in the last three or four years if you look at the featured apps, the vast
majority are native apps and this might be one of the factors that will sway you away from cross-platform
options.
Now of course having said that there are some really great tools being developed currently and React
Native is one of those really exciting things and definitely worth checking out.
But from an app marketing point of view, it's far easier for you to try and pitch Apple or Google on
a native app than a cross-platform written in Javascript for example.